[Music]
so have you ever noticed how airplane
seats are almost always blue now it's
not because they're sad some people
assume that this color was chosen
because it reminds us of the sky but the
real reason is not that simple we're
about to answer that plus tons of other
popular airplane related questions and
stick around till the end of the video
because we've got a useful bonus for you
that'll let you know how to choose the
best seat on the plane
right next to me before we take off take
a moment to subscribe to our Channel and
turn on post notifications to keep up
with our updates so why are the seats
blue the first blue seats came into use
several decades ago and now pretty much
all airlines choose upholstery of this
color so why blue with the stress and
apprehension that comes with traveling
especially by air Airlines understood
that it's important to calm passengers
down and reassure them that everything's
gonna be all right you probably know
every color has a hidden meaning and
sends our subconscious different signals
according to scientists most people
associate the color blue with
reliability and safety which is
essential even for travelers who don't
suffer from aerophobia it has a proven
positive effect on the human body it
slows down your heart rate and relaxes
tension also according to a study
published in Psychology Today 90% of us
subconsciously make a decision about the
attractiveness of a company depending on
the brand's colors what about other
colors it's interesting to note that in
the 1970s and 80s some airlines try to
use red upholstery but they later had to
change it to blue because it turned out
that the color red increased the level
of aggression among passengers hey those
are my peanuts pal there's also a
practical reason why airline
chose blue seats dirt stains and scrapes
are less visible on this color so that
means these seats can be used for a
longer period of time compared with ones
with lighter colored upholstery and for
those air sick passengers who miss the
bag it probably helps hide the barf
colours as well however since fewer
people can afford to fly first-class
airlines use bright upholstery they're
more often as the fabric wears out
slower fabric or leather as for
materials the seats can be upholstered
with either faux leather or fabric as a
rule in aircrafts used for long-distance
flights like transatlantic ones the
seats are upholstered with fabric
because it's more breathable for the
skin so passengers won't sweat chafe or
experience any discomfort that little
piece of cloth put on the back of the
seat is called an antimacassar the name
comes from Makassar oil which men in the
Victorian era would use to style their
hair this oil is extremely rich and
leaves a greasy stain on anything it
touches so people at that time started
putting these small pieces of fabrics on
the back of armchairs where people would
rest their heads to prevent any damage
to expensive furniture while we might
not slather our hair and the stuff so
much nowadays antimacassar do help
airlines get longer use out of their
seats artificial leather works great for
short flights it's extremely wear proof
and even spilled drinks don't stain it
alright here's another one
why don't plain windows line up with the
seats have you ever been so excited to
have a window seat until you actually
sat down and realize that your much
awaited view was blocked by the back of
the seat in front of you well this
happens basically because airlines care
more about profits than your ability to
take a perfect picture at landing those
greedy scoundrels aviation manufacturers
provide Airlines with
recommendations on how to install seat
rows correctly but no one actually
follows these rules tracks on the floor
of the aircraft allow rows of seats to
be organized at the airlines discretion
so companies take advantage of this in
order to install and therefore sell as
many seats as they can physically
crammed into the space they're also free
to choose the seating arrangement it can
be three four three two three two four
three three three for example so why are
planes white the reason why most planes
are painted white is an aesthetics or
color psychology it's just more
efficient paint can make a plane
anywhere from 600 to 1200 pounds heavier
and the heavier the aircraft is the more
fuel it needs airlines take the weight
issue really seriously in the 1980s
American Airlines decided to remove one
olive from every salad on board and
managed to save forty thousand dollars a
year the color white also reflects light
better which means the plane won't
overheat because of the sun's rags plus
white makes it easier to notice cracks
leaks and any other damage that needs to
be fixed finally it takes rescuers less
time to spot a white plane in case of an
emergency there are exceptions to every
rule of course many people remember the
Lord of the Rings themed Boeing 777 of
Air New Zealand and it's practically
impossible to miss Russian Airlines s
sevens lime-green planes and the bright
orange aircrafts of Johannesburg based
mango Airlines
oh that sounds yummy and why is it so
cold on airplanes all frequent fliers
know that the trick to staying
comfortable onboard is to dress
appropriately and one of the most
important tips any well-versed traveler
can give us is to layer up before you
get on the plane if you agree that the
cabin is always way too cold hit that
like button and make yourself known the
temperature on board has kept close to
freezing for a reason
this way it has nothing to do with
psychology but with preventing health
issues the American Society for testing
and materials international conducted a
whole study on the matter many airplane
passengers get hypoxia which is when a
person is more likely to faint at high
altitudes than on the ground it happens
when bodily tissues don't get enough
oxygen to minimize the risk of fainting
airlines keep the temperature and air
pressure in the cabin really low so if
it's a little too cold for your liking
don't complain simply ask for a blanket
and take comfort in knowing that
airlines are just trying to help people
out or if you're on a newer model
aircraft you'll be happy to know that
they have better thermostats that can
adjust the temperature more precisely
even row by row so where do the pilots
sleep long-haul flights are exhausting
enough for passengers but can you
imagine how the pilots feel for flights
that are longer than 10 and a half hours
there are more than two pilots operating
the aircraft and they take turns resting
in private bunks for the crew the ER bus
a380
the world's largest passenger plane also
has sleeping quarters below its decks
for the whole crew including flight
attendants where they can have some rest
there are also some resting places and
lockers for the crew below or above the
main deck in case there's no special
rest area onboard or if the flight isn't
that long pilots take a break in the
seat rows within or near the cockpit or
even in the passenger cabin and in case
you were wondering if crew members use
the same laboratories as passengers do
the answer is yes on most planes a
Boeing 747 however has a special
bathroom exclusively for the pilots and
now you know the secret to how pilots
can pee at 500 miles per hour bet you
didn't know that now did you
bonus how to choose the best seat toilet
not included we already mentioned that
row positioning in aircrafts mostly
depend on an airline's imagination or
perhaps greediness is the appropriate
word so choosing a comfortable seat is
definitely not an easy task luckily
there are a few tips that can help you
there are special websites like seat
guru comm where you can see real role
positioning in airplanes belonging to
different airlines will help you
determine if you'll actually get to
enjoy the view from your window seat or
if you'll have to constantly lean
forward to see the landscapes if you
don't want to listen to the hum of the
engine throughout your whole flight then
choose a seat closer to the airplanes
nose you might have to listen to flight
attendants chatting but they probably
won't be nearly as loud as the sound of
the engine if it didn't manage to catch
one of these seats then sit closer to
the aisle as it's quieter than near the
window by the way the seats at the front
of the aircraft have one more advantage
meals are served starting with you so
you'll have a wider variety of dishes
the tail end passengers rarely have a
choice between chicken or fish if you're
tall be sure to sit next to the
emergency exit there's more space
between the seat rows and you won't have
to fly with your knees up to your ears
but keep in mind that the seats in the
row near the emergency exit don't
recline this is done so they don't
interfere with an emergency evacuation
so these seats might not be the best
choice for some travelers so which of
the answers to come an airplane question
surprised you the most let's discuss it
in the comments section below
yeah right there if you found this video
interesting give it a like and share it
with your friends so they can be in on
the big secret too if you're new here
don't forget to subscribe to our Channel
remember life is always better on the
bright side
[Music]
you